---
title: The Highway
date: 2014-05-21 16:01:00 +01:00
---

I'm a fairly emotional person. When things go awry, it's not uncommon for me to react first and think second. Truth be told, this has never been useful in any way, to me or anyone around me when this happens. Never. It's not fun being an anti-personnel mine, even less being the one walking on it.


There are many strategies to deal with that kind of behavior. I do sport. I treat my body and mind as accumulators that periodically must be emptied. In this endeavour, sport is my way to go. I enjoy the feeling of exhaustion. Meaning, letting go of my anger and frustration to a point where any trace of negative sentiment is literally imprinted on my soaked t-shirt. Getting rid of a version of myself that need not exist anymore. But as much as I like it, I'm not fool enough to think this is a reponsible strategy in the long term. Practicing sports is meant to improve health, not destroy it. Plus, when I find myself unable to go out for a run---such as the past several months---I tend to get less able to cope with daily stress. Which is a big problem, because least of all want I to become a hindrance for the ones I deeply care about. No one with enough dignity and self-awareness to understand one's role in one's own microcosm of friends and lovers and colleagues and parents actually wants to. If anything, this little pause in my otherwise crowded sport schedule reveals how flawed this approach is, how practicing sport (not the capital-S Sport where you push your limits to reach the ultimate level of beauty and control, but the sport you practice not to think of anything: the selfish, self-centered, I-am-the-only-one-in-the-universe sport) is a masquerade in disguise, a close-mindedness of sort which ultimately amounts to curing the symptoms rather than the disease. Artists at least create something others can enjoy.

I recently started exploring alternative methods; meditation, among others. I'm still studying the thing from a distance. Not because I'm doubtful---anyone who've experienced how quiet and focused breathing shuts all your senses cannot doubt meditation---but because I feel acquiring some knowledge is in order before starting to practice. And I cannot help but look at it through the lens of my own scientific background, however myopic this might be. Meditation is what a mathematician would probably call meta-thinking. It is thinking about the thinking, giving substance to feelings and ideas; not with the intent to ask the whys and hows, but to reach a level of consciousness that helps one "develop compassion, love, patience, generosity and forgiveness" [[source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meditation)].

It is also about one's ability to enjoy the present; something, I have discovered recently, I was awfully terrible at. Because you see, life is but a blip in the History of Time and I should make the most of it and oh man there are so many things I'd love to do how will I ever be able to look at them look they did it already I should learn learn learn and then run run and run again I'm late what on Earth have I done in the meantime stop thinking just do it seize every opportunity no much better create them show them what you're made of and then show some more you must constantly evolve never ever settle for the status quo because hey time is running out and you don't want to find yourself looking back and counting and cursing and feeling miserable for all the lazyness you showed but now it's too late sorry you had your chance it's time to hang up the gloves. All that bullshit. There's [this book](http://www.amazon.fr/gp/product/2913366376/ref=oh_details_o00_s00_i00?ie=UTF8&psc=1) I'm reading and it's fascinating because you can feel the tempo of the text, crafted through a meticulous choice of sentence length, punctuation, words, images, subject matter, it carries a quietness that transcends the boundary of the paper. Reading it has brought back a vision I have been having many times in my life, but somehow completely forgot. It's not a dream really---although I may have dreamt about it once---and yet it seems to have all the usual ingredients of a dream. It goes like this:

I'm on a highway. It's more a road actually, because there's no car and I'm walking. I just appear to be walking very fast, highway-speed fast. I'm looking at myself from a vantage point higher up in the sky, like a bird perched on a tree. I'm surrounded by other bodies; they don't have any distinctive feature so I don't recognize them, but I assume (I *feel*) they are my friends and relatives. I have no time to look at them. All that really matters is where I'm going: forward, never stopping, not turning back. It seems I have no particular destination, I'm just "driving." And yet at some point, I feel the need to stop, get on the sidelane and watch. I don't know what to choose: either go on, with that persistent and annoying feeling, or stop and lose all my relatives in the process.

I always thought this vision---albeit traumatizing---hid some fundamental truth about Life, but it wasn't until I explored meditation, until I was forced into a corner by my own inability to enjoy what I was lucky to possess, that I started to really appreciate the depth of it and, instead of resisting the urge to stop, fully gave myself to it. What I discovered was no less than the soul-crushing experience of finding out I've been wrong all along. I still have to come to grips with the fact that my blind certainty of me doing The Right Thing may have cost me a lot, the friendship and love of people dearest to my heart first and foremost. But I'm no coward. These things I will fight to get them back. I will charge heads on with the fierceness of a raging bull. There is no other choice, in fact there is no choice at all. If I learned anything, it is that saying something is impossible is a nondescript excuse to avoid taking risks.

Not gonna happen.

***

Here I am, quiet still, just looking. Staring. With that special immunity from the laws of physics that comes only in dreams, the people they stopped moving. They're not going anywhere, not without me. I can see the details now; I'm submerged by the details, as if walking into an unknown territory where everything is a constellation of infinite curiosities. I see the highway stretching far on both ends, I see the people. Me. It's time to get things done. I'm on it.